Good mid-grade E2 5b with plenty of good cams in the horizontal breaks - ignore the vertical crackline until you're above it, as fiddling with nuts will just knacker you for the rest of the route!  Slotting in a piece at the top from the jug/ledge abvoe it, however, is easy.

I also felt it natural to finish on the right arete...

Wow, what a range of comments, I may as well give my two-penneth!
"Thrutching" such a stunning line just seems an unecessary approach reserved for those who like to battle.
Laybacking is possible but tiring - especially to place protection and doesn't give much chance to enjoy the situation.
Bridging is elegant and fitting of the line - the precarious nature tests your skill and cool. Do it this way and the three stars become apparent!
Not a soft touch as some extreme opinions here suggest - take a look at the list of casualties this route has produced!
Lastly, dont be put off by the hard start - the top looks intimidating but has good pro and much easier moves - a fitting reward for success on the lower section.

One balancy move leading up to the final overhang, with plenty of gear in the breaks. Friend 5 and 3.5 below the roof (probably a friend 4 too if you could be bothered with it as well). A nice flowing route, worth a star.

Brilliant route. Reachy moves to start, followed by good friend 1.5 placement. Tenuous moves on the slabby central section; the crux seems almost undo-able at first due to the poor nature of the holds, but just lean in, commit to the balancy mantel and trust your feet, and it feels brilliant and easier than it looks. The angle of the slab is in your favour. The upper section is a romp. You have to work for your gear (almost exclusively cams - so take a decent selection), but you can get good, if well spaced placements. Felt high in the grade, and definitely not a first VS.

Sid, you can get a good number 6 nut in the cam slot on the left just before the crux, you can also get a 1.5 sized cam next to this. The bottom is bold but the crux is well protected

Simon Caldwell:
The sideways nut placement mentioned above (by woker I believe) is complete crap, would not hold anything and is micro-nut size anyway (number 1 wallnut considerably too big).  I could have done with a 1.5 cam but didnt have one, the 1 went in, albeit a bit undercammed.  
Where is your bomber nut?  There could be placements over on the far right in the big break you stand in to place the cam, but I didn't go looking over there, its off route and I didn't fancy traversing anyway.  
If you start up the right hand-side at the bottom Im sure you can get gear in lower down, on the left-hand side (the original route) there is one very dodgy looking placement for a number 1 cam which i decided wasnt worth it at the time - a good job since if Id placed it Id have had nothing at all for the crux.

great small wires(rock 2,3) in the overlap/flake before pull over., i couldnt get a cam in the hole, but good Fr1  in the break to protect the hard step up.

Yet another fantastic HS, a solid 5a move off the ground and a bold middle section. The top section can be protected with a nut behind the flake. Shouldn't this climb get a little winged heart icon, it certainly felt like there was a potential for a big fall.

Whil dedcription in rockfax is right, the line on the picture is wrong and takes you an E2'ish route. Go left at horozontal crack.

Nice bit of left knee compression to get left hand up for the last move, nice and spicy finish that I didnt expect!

cams 3.5, 4,  2 & 4.5, 3

Fantastic route, really enjoyed it!  It's got everything - a layback (I agree that it's more of a layback than a jamming crack), small ledges, big reaches, slab finish (we managed to finish straight up).

If you've got some small nuts you can place them in the left crack to protect the traverse (as long as you've extended your pro on the right to reduce the drag).  I dropped onto a crimp on the left from a bridged position, rather than climbing up and traversing the roof.

This routes grade does not matter. The thought off doing this route put the shits up me. If it was on a Pems route 90ft up it would be part of an E4 but it is not. This is Hard Grit for the mortal Climber's. You do not get a roof like this un-less it is on an e3 or e4 Don obviosly had big balls. Don't listn to Best rock climbs ect the sling is shit 2 rock 5's go in then a camlot 3 and the hex on the lip is balls cam 4 smacks in. Don take's his brain out for this one the poor mans big route, you climb this you are taken a risk 50% of the flake is there, you now have to reach like seb on a hard grit route. I cimbed the sloth after 1 yr of e2's vector bla bla the day i did it i played pool with the baran him self what a day, and he told me a seceret about vector which i will share with you all some other time just ask it's brill. I shit my self getting on the sloth i was sick after pulling over the roof. it is 5b climbing all the way with a 5b/5c move over the lip no question. we are talking onsight ascent. this is were the route is so different to them all you have to keep going or it is game over. any one who commits to the roof and just climbs not thinking about the grade or history will achive the greatest roof route in the UK. Forget the grade enjoy the experience you will not find a route like this any were in the world. It is our heratage enjoy forget the debate about the grade who care's every climbers experience will be different and that is why we all climb and have stories to tell in the pub's of this world. Joe Squire Swansea. enjoy, I did

Getting established in the crack to the right is the crux, the key is to step right and up confidently and jam the crack (two or three jams) to the break.

I found the first pitch in the gully quite awkward. The second pitch on the flake is pumpy with lots to hold onto but not much feet! The lower you climb down the flake the harder it gets. The transition from the flake to the balancy traverse is tricky in itself. (Apparently there is a hidden foothold, but not sure I used it!). I found a right hand crimp and left hand on the undercut, to slowly traverse leftward. This is a balancy technical move, which feels very insecure, until you actually commit to make the move. After the traverse move, heading up the wide crack seems desperate (I'm not great at wide cracks anyway). Going round the corner on the arete and then onto the face I have been told is easier, but if you are 5ft 4 inches or smaller, you will have to make a quite committing move on crimps to get to the better holds above (this was the crux for me). Overall an epic and adventurous route, which will stay in my memory for a long time to come.

Only my second E2.
I was glad someone lent me Wallnuts for the crux, cos my nuts wouldn't have fitted. Having said that, I put a no4 Friend in the break out to the left which was nice.
The flake system at the top is real fun.

big wires and medium cams (2ish) protected really well

The left hand tower is the better and more consistent finish; outrageously steep but on good jugs. Probably VS 4c but over very quickly and well-protected with cams so not high in the grade. The initial crack is not much easier IMHO but has even better pro.

Easy enough for 5a, but could be a bit of a shock at HS if you haven't got your steady head on. Definitely worth taking the ropes for mind. There is a good friend after the initail crux section, for the still delicate middle bit. A pink Tricam protects the otherwise run-out, but much easier, end section.

Great route and HVS 5a*** is spot on. There is a hand jam in the top crack which when established should be enough to allow you to place gear (the lips are often sandy). Those with short arms will need to crimp at 5b+ at the move back left but I could reach.

Not that reachy (I'm on the short side of 5'9) and well protected with a size 1.5 cam in the break to the left and a size 5 nut in the bottom of the flake crack. Grab the flake crack, get your feet high and grab the good sloper - one 5a move with good gear, though the fall would be onto the ledge, so bog standard HVS 5a for me ...

A sideways nut quite high up the crack is actually pretty good.

just below the crux, you can put a sling through a hole with quick draw coming off. good protection for the move.

anyone saying this is easy is climbing well above the hvs grade and talking out of their a.s.  if this is at the top of your normal game stay away until you are climbing solid at hvs. i tried it as one of my first hvs's came off hit the deck skined a knuckle allmost off. Next time a year later bridged up it still hard, not easy to put gear in as you are more to the right of crack but got through it, bold and strong arms needed

As said before passing the bulge is straight forward, the crux comes after. There is overhead gear for this part, if you can reach standing on the good footholds, if you can't like meyou won't be able to stop to place anything once you start on the smears. However it was my first grit E1 so I was a bit wired. Even with the above said I think it is reasonably protected.

All the start footholds are so polished that it's become really really hard to start. After five minutes I gave up on all the low footholds and positions I could find and opted for an above my head heel hook on the starting handholds, and rocking over into a leanback in the crack. 

Pretty sure there's an easier way to do it that I missed.

The start isnt that tricky, it was easy to use the slopy foothold on the left (around knee-height) and fist-jam the crack.  Although my second couldnt jam with her small hands and had to do some osrt of dyno I think.  Nice climb.

Indeed pleasant, but take care not to finish direct - take a slight step right at the top, using a great knee-bar to reach over.

Amazing route, gave me a climbgasm. Dint see the high wires for the 2nd crux but just went for it anyway with my last pro dwindling away in the break at the start of the rightwards traverse. After the hard start the rest of the route feels quite eash IMHO!

Straight onto the arete from the ledge (with last decent gear at feet and poor, then no hands) looked desperate and way off for the grade. Went right to cracks then back left up the ramp to the arete. A poor route.

My mate was happy to borrow my Camalot 5 on this pleasant route. Definitely quite serious without it.

It's a little easier to step left onto the boss out left, rather than using it as a handhold. Also, there's nothing wrong with runners behind the holly, it's not off route.

The top was exciting today as it was wet and covered in a layer of slime, I really thought I was going to peel off the top!

I think I went wrong on start of chimney pitch, instead of going straight up wall from belay I went left then a bit of a mantle and back right - gave horrendous rope drag so must remember to go straight next time (as the description says!)

number 2 superlight is bomber high in the crack by crux,  4 offset at bottom of crack and other small wires in the middle

Started up the gully on the right-hand side then stepped across mid-way to the centre.  The steep bulge felt harder than a Diff! The top even more so, as it seems to join the VS at the top, where I exited through the left hole. The right hole is way too small for anyone to fit through. Felt much harder than a Diff. This route needs to be re-assessed for the guidebook.

I found that it was hard to get any bomber gear in due to all the rusty wires. I used a 0.5 cam which was a bit under cammed on 2 of the cams and a size 1 next to it. I think it was ok but not as bomber as I would like. I also found that the moves up to the ledge were fairly thin but it was a hot day. Good route.

Awkward is not the way to describe the start unless you have big boots and massive hands place a big friend high in the crack from the block on the left and then layback the right handside of the crack, to gain mortal sized jams.

Hidden peg in first groove seems okay and can be backed up with a #1 nut and a micro. ~5b move to enter the first groove over a lonely shallowish cam.

Lower section protection worked well with Dmm I.m.p.s protecting my fall. Then laybacking and move up to chockstone- put a sling on it and then thought better of it and removed (feels dubious). Jamming technique would be v helpful higher up but I had to make do without! One full arm jam and will power over the mantel (make sure you have something good to protect final fall). 
Route took forever and felt epic to me! You know you have done it after.

Awesome climbing. Contrary to what some people say here, this does not need to be a pumby climb. Look carefully for feet placements, they are available all the way, specially in the hard middle layback section, there are three places here were you can bridge and place gear relaxed and confidently. The top overhang is a breeze. Enjoy.

Where it doglegs, stay left

Crux move is a slightly fingery traverse (with friction-only for feet) leading to a short reach on to a great handhold

Handjamming key for the traverse and the crack!

The big pocket mentioned in the description as a likely cam placement will actually take a fairly reasonable Camalot 3 - it takes a bit of playing around, but I've placed worse gear. With this on one rope and a Zero on another - a fall might just be thinkable - would be a fun experiment.

As for the grade: if the last moves are 6a rather than 4b(?) it would be E6, so logically it's E1 - surely? ;-)

fell off and all the gear ripped which wasnt a surprise so finally did protected by a skyhook weighted down with friends. went up and foot traversed the handholds. still a stupid route

Loads of gear placement. easy to get pumped placing to much near the start. place two good pieces before the crux roof and the finish can be run out as climbing is easy to the belay.

Hiden foothold on left of crack at shin hight is useful.

a Beautiful delicate start leads to good gear, a strenous pull/leap to a good horn off a smear takes you level with the top of the crack of neb buttress and more bomber gear. From here the crux awaits you can get a friend 2 placed sideways in the flake/slot opposite the holly. then a high rockover and some small crimps enable the hanging flake to be grasped and a sprint to victory up excellent holds.

Foot-jam and squirm up to reach top of chockstone

Good small cams in the overlap before / above the flexible flake

I was able to make a long, precarious reach across to the ledge, though a shorter (& lighter) person could probably make more use of the holds in between.

I found this route pumpy too, it’s slightly overhanging and bulgy, the gear is good and includes a thread near the top, the lower wide crack was difficult to jam as it was too wide for my fist, I would say it’s 4c realistically.

I've done this quite a few times over the years but it definitely felt tricky this time.  The current chockstone does move, which is unsettling, and in my book it's a gymnastic 5a pull to get your foot high.  Perfectly protected though.

did it two weeks ago ,pulled out one rusty wire and got a sma1l cam in lovely.1 star for aspect.

If you have the right rack - small nuts and cams - and are quite cunning at placing them, then this route is extremely well protected. Think i got 5 (count 'em!) pieces in at bottom the the crux flake before launching up it (which is easier than it looks). More gear at top of flake, then massive breaks (cams) all the way to the top. Great fun.

Peg looking a bit sorry for itself but a bomber yellow totem goes in the pocket just next to it.

A great gym problem, very strong moves but always over bomber gear. A large deadpoint at the start gains a small nut, from which a powerful rockover must be done. After reaching up the crack a very good rest is reached. After this a few steep moves bring you to a ledge and the climb is all but over. A high large tree can be used for the belay

done this route a few times now and allways tough on the forearms top tip have a rest with your feet on the small crimps to the right of the 2nd niche and your forearms on the ledge good finger jam to get off the niche

You can get a bomber 4 or 5 wire above the bulge - quite a reach to get it in! 


Good route though

